the social and political and economic
climate of the time was cracked for
everybody
fewer black multiply that by 10.
[Music]
[Applause]
britain was very for me very quite a
hostile place growing up
here in knees we felt we couldn't even
leave our communities
and because people were the racial
attacks at the time
and just the slogans on the wall and we
were only young
children and so i think it quite
traumatized us and i think the
atmosphere was very
much that we weren't wanted
young black people called the police the
wicked babylon and they felt they were
being persecuted
we were treated like back in those
days
and we were desperate for something that
would lift us up
i do remember sat there watching and
manny came on
and screamed i absolutely screamed
jumping around the place because reggae
music wasn't something that the radio
stations played or it wasn't really
featured
in british society so to see bob marley
on the all-grey whistle test
blew my mind it was one of those moments
that you'll never forget
this is a rock program this is a reggae
artist
it never happened before and up until
that point we haven't seen
this band perform live
it's been a static image on an album
sleeve
so really really powerful performance
miley's presence resonated with the
condition
particularly of young black people in
southampton
because they were told for so long
they're not good enough
they can't get jobs there they were sent
to schools that
were supposed to be for people who were
deficient in some way or the other
and they saw that the kind of jobs their
parents did
as as as good as they may have been they
wanted to do better
[Applause]
i'm actually a product of the windrush
generation
a lot of our parents kind of denied
their culture to try and assimilate
they try to anglicize themselves which
obviously didn't work
and you know we're growing up teenage
kids we're seeing that our parents are
basically being screwed
and that's what bob did at that moment
in time he lifted the black
youth of this country
you know we're being informed by what's
going on in america with the whole civil
rights thing
so we're pissed off and angry and bob
gave that a soundtrack
it was like doors were just open
to this music and to this man he just
blew the roof off with positive
vibration
and some positive regular music
his music was an education so a lot of
us
didn't have the access to the books like
now we've got the internet you can
research anything
he was he was like our internet through
music we we got educated and we we
learned about ourselves and
and had a sense of pride in who we were
but mali
definitely changed britain that message
of unity
and love i think we need his music more
now than ever